Let's walk through calculating a funnel drop-off rate using Tableau.
Step 1, we need to review the available data.
Here I have data for a website that sells items.
I only have user ID and the names of pages here.
The names of the pages correspond to visitors taking a specific action.
Let me go from the raw data source to the workbook area.
By putting the dimensions I'm interested in onto the workspace,
I can quickly see the names of the pages and if they are relevant to the data.
Here I see a homepage,
a payment confirmation page,
a payment page, and a search page.
Great, those are the steps a user would take in the purchase funnel.
So on to step 2.
I want to put the steps in order from
the first step a user would take to the final goal step.
In this case, the final goal is represented by payment confirmation.
So I would make that the final step,
and search is the second step.
Now that the events are ordered,
I want to move on to step 3 and count the unique sessions for each step.
Just by looking at the data.
I'm not sure if a user could go through the funnel more than once,
or if this is only for first-time purchasers.
To confirm, I can compare the number of records for each event with a number of user IDs.
If they are the same,
I'll know each user only went through the funnel once.
Here you can see I calculated and counted the records.
The number of user IDs is equal to the number of records.
Since the number is the same,
this shows each user is only going through the funnel once.
We can use the count of records for step 4.
For step 4, we need to determine the percent change or drop-off rate between each step.
To do this, we apply a table calculation for percent change.
Here I go to Quick Table Calculation and do "Percent Difference".
Now our table shows us the rate at which users drop out of the funnel.
Note that the first step has no drop-off listed,
since a 100 percent of the visitors we analyze always begin at the starting step.
By looking at where users drop off and higher rates,
we can find areas in need of improvement.
Here we can see every step has a large drop-off rate,
including a 54 percent drop-off rate from
users who land on the homepage and don't begin to search.
But in this example, the highest level of drop-off occurs in the final step between
payment and payment confirmation at a 92.64 percent drop-off rate.